So now that we've talked about NAT instances,
let's look at NAT Gateways.
So NAT Gateways are much better.
There either is managed in that instances of asleep and they
have a higher bandwidth.
There is high availability you can do into it,
and there is no administration.
So you're going to pay per hour of usage and bandwidth for
the night gateway and the nugget weight.
It will be created in a specific AZ and it will inherit
an Elastic IP.
Now it cannot be used with an Institute instance within the
same sub-net okay.
So the nugget weight can only be helpful if accessed from
another sub-net.
So we're going to create a nugget way in a public subnets
and connect it to instances in the private subnets.
Now, the routes,
how it works is that it goes from the private subnets to the
nugget way to the internet gateway. Okay.
So net gateway can not work without an internet gateway.
Now the bandwidth is five gigabits per second,
automatically scaling up to 100 gigabits per second,
and you don't need to manage any security groups
it's not required.
So that means that we don't need to think about which
ports you enable to make the connectivity work.
So the way it works that right now we have this setup, okay.
We have a private instance and a private subnets,
and it can not access the internet.
So we're going to create the next gateway in the public
subnets and the nugget weight, because it is,
will be deployed into public subnets.
And the public center is already connected to the internet
gateway. Then,
then that gateway will have internet connectivity.
And then we can,
we're going to edit the roots of the private subnets.
And by editing them,
we are going to be able to connect our
Institute instance into our nuts gateway.
So now let's talk about high availability
and not gateways.
So the nugget weight is resilience only
within a single availability zone.
So it's going to be redundant within a single AZ,
but in case an AZ go down,
you need to have multiple net gateways
in multiple AZ to have fault tolerance.
So the way it works is like this.
So currently we have one gateway
and it's in one specific AZ,
we're going to create a second
net gateway in the second AZ so this was,
you can see each network traffic is confined into an AZ.
And so that if there is an AZ that goes down, okay,
this whole AZ happens to be going down.
Then we'll still have the ACB working
because a NAT gateway in ACB or X as well exists.
And there's no need to connect the atheist together through
the route tables, because well,
if an AZ goes down, then all the Eastern instances
in that are also currently unassailable.
So now let's just talk about the difference
between net gateway and other instances,
but there should be quite obvious.
So the net gateway is highly available within a specific AZ.
And if you want to get high voltage across AZ,
you need to create another one in another AZ resonant
instance, You wouldn't,
have a script to manage fail-over between that instances
and manage them overall.
The bandwidth is up to 100 gigabits per second,
per not gateway.
And that for in that instance, well,
it depends on the instance type that you have,
but the higher instance type,
the more throughput you're going to have,
the maintenance is obviously a managed
service when they get way.
Whereas it's measured by you.
For instance,
we need to make sure you have the software
or the U S patches and so on.
The cost is a per hour cost plus amount of data transfer for
the night gateway. Whereas for instance,
it's per hour for these two incidents,
which is going to be a dependent,
obviously on the easy two instance type and size.
And also you're going to pay for network dollar that goes
through the ECC instance out to the internet.
Okay.
Now the negative way has a public IP
for enterprise IP for us so this is good.
The same, for instance,
now security groups are not used for net gateway,
which seriously a good thing because, well, you don't,
you manage one more thing. Whereas from that instance,
you need to set up your secrets, your groups,
and make sure they're tight and working for the right ports.
And the nugget way can not be used as a bastion host.
Whereas in that instance could be used as a bastion host if
we want it to,
there's a lot more differences between these two things.
And there's a link right here,
but from an exempt perspective,
there should be enough to insert any questions into choosing
a NAT gateway versus in that instance.
So that's it for this lecture I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.